# EDID Data

This folder contains the EDID data for the display used in this project.
It should replace the EDID data in the IP core itself. As this cannot be published due to the use of submodules, it is provided here and should be done manually.
The file in use for the xilinx system is (this one.)[https://github.com/Digilent/vivado-library/blob/master/ip/dvi2rgb/src/dgl_720p_cea.data]

I am however unsure if its just this file, or the one in the 'src' folder Vivado uses. I simply replaced both.

## Generating or Modifying EDID Data

The binary file is generated using the Deltacast EDID Editor. It is a free tool, but requires registration.
To get the correct timing data, I used the (Free86 modeline generator)[https://xtiming.sourceforge.net/cgi-bin/xtiming.pl] made by Ethan Fischer.
This was then plugged into the EDID editor, and the binary file was generated, which then was ran through the python script in this folder to convert it to a data file.

## Modeline to EDID

Converting the modeline data generated by the site to usable EDID data, you have to do some basic arithmetic.
Taking the following modeline data as used by the display as an example:
```
Modeline "400x960@60" 36.48 400 432 568 600 960 979 989 1009
```

This is the data that is generated by the site. We can extract the following information from it:
```
Pixel Clock:     36.48 MHz

H. Display:     400
H. Sync Start:  432
H. Sync End:    568
H. Total:       600

V. Display:     960
V. Sync Start:  979
V. Sync End:    989
V. Total:       1009
```

These values are not immediately obvious how they fit into the EDID more strict format. Luckily its rather easy to convert them.
The front porch can be found by simply:
```
Front Porch = Sync Start - Display
```

The sync width can be found by:
```
Sync Width = Sync End - Sync Start
```

The blanking time can be found by:
```
Blanking = Front Porch + Sync Width + Back Porch
```
However, as the back porch is not given, we can simply infer it by taking the total pixel count and subtracting the screen size:
```
Back Porch = Total - Display
```

This should give us the following values:
```
Pixel Clock:     36.48 MHz

H. Active:      400
H. Blank:       200
H. Front Porch:  32
H. Sync Width:  136
H. Image Size:  600

V. Active:      960
V. Blank:        49
V. Front Porch:  19
V. Sync Width:   10
V. Image Size:  1009
```

These are simply plotted into the Detailed Timings / Display Descriptor section of the EDID editor.
Important to note that you also need to set the "Sync Signal Definition" to "Digital Seperate" and both the sync signals should be unchecked.

Your "Detailed Timings / Display Descriptor" section should look like this:
!(EDID Screen)[./edid.png]